---
authors:
  - Octavia E. Butler
books/tags:
  - fiction
  - science fiction
date: 2023-10-10
params:
  isbn13: "9780446676106"
  year: "2000"
star_rating: 4
title: Lilith's Brood
---

I was blown away by the premise of Dawn (the first novel in the trilogy) and its
execution. The remnants of humanity, after a nuclear apocalypse occurs, are
"saved" by aliens and forced to choose between mating with their saviors or
never being able to have children again. The rest of the novels didn't hit me as
hard but they were interesting nonetheless.

<!--more-->

---

Dawn - 5 stars Adulthood Rites - 3 stars Imago - 3 stars

What follows is mostly me rambling about the series.

This series is about biological determinism, consent, imbalanced power dynamics
and sexual violence (among other things). Although, the books don't wrestle with
these topics as much as I think they should have.

The first book contains a scene of sexual violence that is really phucked up
despite not being very explicit. Overall, this book goes HARD. The imagery is
powerful and will stick with me for a long time to come.

Adulthood Rites, the second book in the series, follows, from the POV of a
mixed-species boy, the story of humanity repopulating the Earth and the tensions
between the settlements of human-alien hybrids and the Human resisters who've
chosen to be sterilized but free(ish) from alien influence.

It's not as memorable as the first book. It lacks the novelty and the raw-ness
of the first book.

The third book in the series, Imago, follows the story of a one of a kind
mixed-species ooloi (neither man or woman, a third sex) as it discovers who it
is and what it can do (a lot -- it can manipulate the genes of others and
itself at will). Despite having an intriguing premise, it's the weakest of the
three books. It's ending feels rushed and the lead up to it was disappointing.

It feels as though the series would have been better served by spending more
time reckoning with the fact that as the protagonists become less and less human
in each book, what comes naturally to them (AKA using pheromones and the best
sex skills this side of the universe to have sex with people who ARE NOT
biologically capable of providing actual consent) is extremely phucked up and
turns them into monsters (at least from the perspective of the reader).

Lilith's Brood is so far removed from the reality that we live in that I found
it hard to extrapolate much of anything meaningful from the text other than the
absolute rollercoaster ride of emotions that I got from reading the first book.

The text is outlandish but it also seems somewhat uninterested in tackling the
ethical issues it takes on through its premise. And so, I felt a little
disappointed by the end. I was expecting for a bit more push and pull and more
of a focus on the ethics of it all.

Although, I felt that, other than a few minor issues, the world felt internally
consistent for the most part. And it was easy for me to immerse myself in the
universe that Butler built. Despite feeling somewhat cold on the series as a
whole, I'm pretty invested in Butler's writing and I'm interested in reading
more from her.

She's blown me away with how bold her writing can be. Nobody else would fill a
book with this much rape and get away with it.
