---
title: A (work)day in the life
date: 2021-11-01
tags:
    - ramble
---
_6:30am._

I wake up. It's still dark outside. I sit on the toilet bowl and piss. I get up and walk over to my closet. I pull out some socks, pajama pants or shorts depending on the weather and a polo shirt.

I get dressed.

I walk over to my living room. I take my phone off its wireless charger and check to see if I received any messages in the middle of the night (probably not). I take my water bottle and fill it up with future piss if I need to.

_7am._

I walk into my office. I log into my PC.

I work.

...

_9:30am._

I get on a conference call with my team. I listen. I speak for a 1min about what I'm working on and I ask for help if I need it.

_10am._

I eat lunch quickly then get back to work.

...

I finish work. I walk over to my bedroom, take my polo shirt off and throw it into the dirty laundry basket. I pick out one of my comfy t-shirts and put it on.

I walk to my living room. I hit the switch on my gaming desktop PC to turn it on and I jump onto my couch. I check to see if there's anyone online who wants to play a game with me (probably [Hunt: Showdown](../../../../blog/2020-09-04/). Either way, I play a game for an hour or two.

_5pm._

I make dinner. I eat dinner. I watch TV while I eat (I'm watching It's Always Sunny in Philidelphia right now).

_6pm._

I work out. I do mostly bodyweight strength training in my tiny home gym three times a week and I do cardio using my virtual reality headset every other day.

_7pm._

I read a book (I'm reading the Odyssey translated by Emily Wilson right now). I take notes diligently as I read to help me absorb as much of the text as possible.

_8pm._

I write and/or code. I haven't written anything in two weeks... I've been spending my time working on making my (this) website a bit more usable. I've also made a little [cocktail menu](/cocktails/) with all the cocktails I can make for when I have guests over.


_9pm._

I brush my teeth. I figure out what I want to do with the little time I have left and I do it.

_10pm._

I go to my bedroom. I set my alarm for 6:30am the next morning. I turn on my sound machine to drown out the noise from outside. I sleep.
