---
title: "Tabletop Roleplaying: Getting your players to give a shit"
date: 2022-08-16T09:15:35-04:00
blog/tags:
    - gaming
draft: true
---

Tabletop roleplaying works best when everyone at the table is fully invested in the world the characters exist in.

It's unlikely that as soon as the first session starts, everyone is on the same page on what the world looks like, what the prior in it worry about and everything else.

No matter how much they prepare themselves by reading books, or watching movies, or playing games as a reference.

Everyone at the table is going to have a different idea of the kind of world you're playing in.

And, that's ok.

Building your shared perception of the world together is a fun part of roleplaying.

As your characters perceive the world around them and change it based on their actions, you'll have begun bringing an entirely imaginary world to life.

To make sure this whole thing runs smoothly, I recommend discussing with your players what kind of tone the game should have.

It doesn't matter what you decide to run, whether it's a goody game about planning and executing heists that go terribly wrong or a game about superheroes trying to solve world hunger by killing all the billions and redistributing the wealth.

Anything is possible, as long as everyone is on the same page with regards to the kind of world you're going to be building together, you're going to have good time.

...

Also, if you're new to the world of tabletop roleplaying, to help grease the wheels of the new player experience you should choose a setting that most of your players are familiar with.

You might all be new to roleplaying but you're all very likely to have been exposed to a wide variety of media throughout your lives that you can use to ground yourselves in something familiar (the genres you know and love) while doing something new (learning to roleplay).

Here's a list of genres and tabletop role-playing games built for those:

Monster is the Week
Dungeon World
Blades in the Dark
Feng Shui 2
Stars with Number


All of these are relatively rules-light systems that should be a good place to get started.

If you're interested in playing something a little more number crunchy (like DND or Shadowrun) go ahead. If you're willing to put in the effort (and all your players are too) it'll be fine but you've been warned.
