---
title: The Power of Positive Thinking by Vincent B. Clear
blog: blog
date: 2022-01-12
tags:
    - fiction
---
> The following text is an excerpt from The Power of Positive Thinking™ by Vincent B. Clear.

What if your thoughts could become reality?

What if you believed hard enough in something, it became true?

Take the next step in your life's journey by learning to harness The Power of Positive Thinking™ to make your life and the lives of those around you, greater than.

My name is Vincent B. Clear. I have a theoretical PhD in positive psychology. I've spent decades of my life travelling, learning from beacons of ancient wisdom all across the world about the old ways, that most of us have forgotten.

I've written this book in hopes of sharing my understanding of The Power of Positive Thinking™ with as many people as possible.

If you're reading this, that means that I've succeeded.

Reality, and more importantly your individual interpretation of it, exists mostly within the confines of your own mind. Willpower is more powerful than you know.

Let's begin.

[...]

> Character Bio

Not much is known about Vincent B. Clear's past. He seemed to have appeared out of nowhere and achieved massive success with the release of his first book, The Power of Positive Thinking™.

He spends most of his time travelling the world, giving talks and spreading his gospel across the world.

Recently, he's been diligently working on a followup to his first book. Unfortunately, the handwritten manuscript for The Power of Positive Thinking 2.0: Positive Thinking for the Digital Age™², was stolen in the dead of night from his office.

He can't stop, won't stop until he finds the only copy of the manuscript he's been working so hard on. He's not too worried about it though. Using The Power of Positive Thinking™, anything is possible.


> Examples of The Power of Positive Thinking™

As world's leading expert on The Power of Positive Thinking™, Vincent B. Clear's powers surpass those of his disciples by several orders of magnitude.

Using The Power of Positive Thinking™ Vincent B. Clear can:

- "Woops, I forgot about X" [changes a minor detail about the past and the present through positive thinking].
- Make himself impervious to bullets and other forms of physical harm.
- Can de-escalate any situation through his contagious happiness.
- And much more.
