---
title: "Notepad"
date: 2022-05-05
blog/tags:
    - not_sure
draft: true
---
# The Hero Yoshihiko
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Y%C5%ABsha_Yoshihiko

I've been watching The Hero Yoshihiko. Some of you might be interested in checking it out.

It's a Japanese live action parody of JRPGs, specifically Dragon Quest. It's quite funny, if it doesn't make you laugh out loud it'll at least make you smile.

In a similar vein, Deadly Class is a live action adaptation of the comic book by the same name.

It features a hobo orphan murderer who gets recruited into a high school for assassins.

This is the most YA, YA piece of media that has ever YAed. It feels like satire even though I don't think it was meant to be.

I haven't laughed this hard watching a show in months. Watching with friends might be the best way to experience this

If you're into this (very unlikely I think) then I can also recommend you take a look at The Order

Which is about a guy infiltrating a secret society in a university to get revenge for his mother's death

# ...
Your mind thinks that your VR game experiences are actually happening to you and that's why they are        so memorable.

Playing Resident Evil 4 VR, I become Leon S. Kennedy. I'm swing the knife like Leon, therefore I am         Leon. I see through Leon's eyes, therefore I am Leon. I save the president's daughter, therefore I am       Leon.


...

incentives:

Dating apps aren't incentivized to getting you to meet someone, they want you spend as much time on         the app as possible and spend as much of your money on it.

They don't want you to meet someone, they want you to be unhappy and coming back for more.

# The Odyssey but it's a tiny poem
> Every line represents a book in the Odyssey.

Athena's invisible hand guides Telemachus, son of Odysseus,

Telemachus embarks on a journey to find his long lost father,

Kind Nestor tells him tales of Odysseus's bravery in the Trojan War,

As does brave Menelaus, while Penelope, wife of Odysseus gazes longingly at the sea

Calypso, Odysseus's sexy sugar mommy, lets him go at the request of Zeus

Odysseus lands on Scheria and is led to King Alcinous by the princess, Naussica

Alcinous promises Odysseus everything he needs to get back home

Inspired by a god, Demodocus sings of Odysseus's deeds in the Trojan War

Odysseus recounts his cursed encounter with Polyphemus, the Cyclops

He tells tales of a cursed bag of wind, of Telepylus the city of, angry, giants and of the sexy witch Circe

book 11: the dead ... At Circe's request, Odysseus reaches the land of the dead and speaks to heros of old, to his fellow warriors who died in the war?
...

book 23? Odysseus goes absolutely postal in his home and kills everyone who tried to cuck him

24: Odysseus reunites with his father and makes peace with all his enemies.
# TikTok
2021-11-11
TikTok was sold to me as a series of funny and interesting videos.

It's not a shared experience...

When I go on TikTok, 9/10 videos I see are softcore pornography with women of all kinds showing a lot of skin and bouncing around for the pleasure of the viewer.

They're not trying to hide it. It's just straight up porn.

By creating a space that is so heavily personalized to you, my experience of what TikTok is, is completely different from what your experience is. It's masturbatory, I can't share it with anyone.

Clearly, the algo sucks because I'm not compelled to watch softcore porn on TikTok. If I was interested in that, there are better, and less questionable, avenues for that.


# Moving out, painting minis
2020-01-09
I recently moved out of my parent's place and I started a new job. Everything has been going well so far. I've been busy getting used to the new job, getting used to the new place and furnishing it (I went to IKEA once now for a table and shelves combo but I might have to go again.)

I was on break for a couple months which is when I got into painting miniatures. Now that I have a full time job again and other additional responsibilities I've been figuring out how I can continue my hobby without taking up all my free time and achieving progress at a rate I'm satisfied with.

The solution I've come up with is learning airbrushing which accelerates many parts of the painting process and allows me to paint inside during the coming winter months (using appropriate safety measures like a mask and a spraying box with a fan and a vent).

My first project will be painting my chaos space marines army. I'll be painting about half as Red Corsairs (a shade of red as you can imagine), half as Alpha Legion (a shade of teal) and a couple of special characters like Ahriman, a leader of the Thousand Sons, and three Daemon Princes which will require unique paint jobs.

Although I've never used an airbrush before I've used the knowledge I've gained from YouTube (especially the Goobertown Hobbies channel) to come up with a plan for painting my army using an airbrush for speed and a unique look that can't be done easily with brushes.

I magnetized the bases of all the miniatures. Not only is it great for storage/transportation and it's also an immense time saver when it you want to play. It's very convenient when you want to batch paint them, as I'll be doing because I have tons of miniatures to paint. With magnetized bases you can place your minis on any magnetic surface (like a metal ruler for batch priming or a dowl with a magnet glued on to it for printing) and easily snap them on and off as desired quickly and efficiently.

I'll then double check all my miniatures for imperfections created by the molding/assembly process which need to be repaired, sanded down or removed. I'll drill all the gun barrels.

I'll add bits to the chaos space marines to make each faction look unique and even each squad. I'm toying with the idea of using the CSM "hooks" from their vehicle kits to make pirate-esque Red Corsairs. Similarly I'm thinking of doing the same using the CSM Dragon bits that also come with their vehicle kits.

Now my miniatures should be ready to paint, sort of... Before putting paint on miniatures you always need to start by applying primer, a specially made paint that sticks will and will give all the other paint you use something to stick on.

I've used black primer in the past and I plan on continuing to use it but in a slightly different way this time. Specifically I'll be applying the primer through an airbrush instead of a rattlecan (Black Surface Primer by Vallejo which can be used straight from the bottle into an airbrush).

Because it's my first time doing this, I'll test the priming process on an extra miniature or two and when I'm confident that I won't mess it up I'll go through all my miniatures one by one (or maybe in batches using a metal ruler as I mentioned above) and prime them all.

Once the miniatures have been primed black and dried I will now apply another coat of primer. This time however I will be priming the miniature using a white primer (White Surface Primer by Vallejo) lightly from above. This process of priming black all over the miniature and then priming white from above is called zenithal priming. If done properly should produce a miniature with a gradient of grey as if it was being lit from above (by the sun).

Next, we'll take advantage of the zenithal priming by applying a base coat of translucent ink, trying to be a little more precise now to avoid getting too much ink where I don't want it to be (the guns mostly).  make a mistake I can cover it up later easily when I start brushing.

By airbrushing translucent ink over the zenithal priming we should end up with a shaded miniature from the get go without spending ten times as long with techniques like wet blending using brushes.

After everything dries out I'll apply a coat or two of varnish with my airbrush to each miniature because I want to be able to play with them before I've completely finished their paint jobs without worrying about rubbing the base coat off.

I'll hoping that I'll be able to complete the previous steps between two sessions (two weeks or more apart usually) so that I can continue playing this army while I'm painting it.

After I've applied the varnish I'll be taking a break from my airbrush and moving on to my brushes. Although I haven't thought that far ahead yet.

With my brushes I'll paint my miniatures in batches of 6-12 depending on how long each mini takes. I'll be painting them from their current state to completion, allowing me to have a rolling set of miniatures rotated out (which will most likely be ready to proxy) so that I can always have my army at the ready for play while I finish painting them.

Once I have pictures to show I'll make another shorter post with pictures.



# Mushroom soup
Mushroom soup
Onion
Can of peas
Salt and pepper
Chicken
Spoon of honey

Crackers/bread on side

Dump it all in pot and cook until tastes good/soft

Potentially can pan cook the chopped onions first
# Thief II
2020-02-13
In Thief II: The Metal Age, you play as Garrett, the titular thief. I'm finding it to be a great escape from my everyday life. It's surprisingly refreshing to be given a clear list of objectives to complete within a well-defined space. It's challenging but fair, it's slow pace makes it less of an action game and more of a strategic. It feels like a precursor to the Dishonored games which I very much enjoyed. Thief has aged well, although keep in mind that I'm playing with a heavily updated version with HD graphics.

For those who've never played it, each mission starts with an animated and narrated video which sets the stage for your heist. Garrett's gruff and cynical tones bring you into the Thief mindset. You are then dropped just inside whichever environment you're tasked with robbing blind whether that is a mansion, a medieval castle or the docks. You're given a list of objectives to complete, a map of the area and the option to purchase equipment to help you using the ill-gotten gains from your previous mission.

It sounds simple, obvious even, but it's much harder to build a compelling stealth game than it is to build games with more aggressive means of interacting with your environment.

In Thief, you can technically run around swimming your big sword you're discouraged from doing so and the harder difficulty levels usually prevent your from killing anyone, at least one mission even prevents you from knocking anyone out. That one is a tough one...

To be hidden, to be unseen. Hiding in the shadows, stalking your prey. That's a fantasy we've all had at one time or another. Few games focus solely on this fantasy this provide a less engrossing and interesting experience as a result.

One caveat about Thief 2 is that the experienced is sectioned off cleanly into separate levels. This is less of a modern design. Other than the fact that the loot you steal in one level allows you to buy gadgets for your next heist. Nothing carries over between missions other than your gradually increasing knowledge of the game mechanics.

This is unlike most other immersive sim games. Thief is definitely a more focused experience.

This is a positive and a negative depending on how you look at it. More expensive immersive sim games (and open world games with rpg mechanics) run into the problem of being hard to balance properly because you don't know what skills/items players are focusing on and bringing with then on their adventures.

In Thief however, the designers were able to specifically set and restrict the variety of tools that the player has access on a level by level basis. Theoretically, allowing them to build more specific and engrossing experiences within the larger context of the game.

Some specific examples of this are:... Bank, fire arrows, rope arrows

Although the game designers designed each level such that there are usually a wide variety of ways of tackling each of the objectives which may or may not make use of certain gadgets Garrett has at his disposal.




List: Thief, Dishonored, (to a lesser extent other immersive sim games all in the looking glass line), Mask of the Ninja, Invisible Inc., splinter cell, Hitman, assassin's Creed

Jimmy the thief in pug the magician.

It's easy to build the AI for enemies who's sole purpose is to act as targets for the player's bullets but building the AI for enemies in a stealth game is much harder.

They're meant to patrol and guard areas realistically, react to the player's various actions and gadgets.

Video games are about interactivity. It should come as no surprise to you that the simplest interaction to build into a AAA game consists of you pulling the trigger and bodies hitting the floor. Strategy games, stealth games, puzzles games, ... so hard compared to shooters.

Thoughts on each level
Missions, Briefings and Cutscenes

1: Running Interference

2: Shipping... and Receiving

3: Framed

4: Ambush!

5: Eavesdropping

6: First City Bank and Trust
It's a bank
7: Blackmail

8: Trace the Courier

9: Trail of Blood

10: Life of the Party

11: Precious Cargo

12: Kidnap

13: Casing the Joint

14: Masks

15: Sabotage at Soulforge

# Enderal Forgotten Stories or the reason I'm playing a Skyrim mod in 2020
2020-02-12
I started playing games at a young age. I would climb onto the chair and sit at the computer, legs dangling, and ask my dad to type the God mode cheat for me and then spend some time blasting demons back to hell.

Eventually, I grew, my legs dangled less and I didn't need cheat codes anymore when I began delving deeper underneath the town of Tristram to rid it of an ever-present undead and demonic threat.

Eventually I was torn away from my easy life spent purging the world of demonic threats and thrust into the real world, school.

I had a hard time connecting with the other students due to not speaking their language. Eventually, over years, I learned to speak French but by then the damage had already been done. I was ostracised and treated like an idiot for most of my first eight years of school.

So I went back to my cozy nest of video games and took pleasure in a hobby that understood me and treated me with respect. Looking back, this was most likely to the detriment of my personal development and my social skills.

My dad bought me a PlayStation in the late 90s. I spent countless hours bouncing around as Crash Bandicoot or gliding to and fro as Spyro. Every other week we would go to our local video and game rental store (RIP) to rent a game and subsequently I would add another burned disk to ever-growing stack. I can barely remember most of those games, very few stuck with me.

I went through my days robotically. I woke up, went to school, sat and listened, got bullied by a nerdy and effeminate Middle Eastern kid and a little Asian girl, went home and played video games as long as I could before needing to do school work or sleep.

A language barrier prevented me from interacting in any real way with my peers so I developed an interest in passively observing others and expressing my emotions through non-verbal means.

In video games, I could spread my wings and interact with the world in ways that I couldn't in real life.

Games became an obsession for me, gaming became the only activity that gave me a sense of belonging and let me forget that I was an outcast in the real world.

The PlayStation was revolutionary but most of the games but I can barely remember any of the games I played except for Crash Bandicoot and Spyro.

I was given a PS2 on my birthday (I think) with a copy of Smuggler's Run and Final Fantasy X. I had never played a Final Fantasy game. My young mind was mesmerized by the epic story, the characters and the soundtrack.

The trials and tribulations the characters faced and overcame and the friendships and love they nourished over the course of their journey showed me what I was missing out on. I longed for it.

Soon after, I got the original Xbox. Or how I prefer to call it these days, the Halo machine. Halo was life changing, I played it nonstop in single player, in coop and competitive with friends locally. The gameplay, the event AI, the visuals, the sound design and orchestral music was beyond anything I had ever experienced prior and I was blown away.

Video games became a social affair more than before. I had one friend since preschool who had an N64 and a GameCube (we also played Doom, Diablo, Red Alert and StarCraft together). But I remember playing Halo the most.

Halo 2 came out for the Xbox in my last year of primary school. My only "friend", his friends and I played a couple of matches of  Halo 2 before they decided that I just wasn't good enough to play with them.

I look back on this moment fondly because it was the first time that I was presented with a real life challenge to overcome which I felt I was fully capable of overcoming due to my love of video games.

I played for an entire summer. I might have over corrected slightly.

...

And that's when I graduated primary school and upgraded to high school. Some of my classmates followed me to high school. One of my primary school tormentors joined me although she seemed to have grown out of her little bitch self. I was also joined by my primary school's main punching bag. He helped me by redirecting a lot of the bubbling hatred and teen angst in high school towards him unwillingly or not. I've forgotten the names of the majority of my high school peers but I haven't forgotten his. He was an unsung hero.



The Xbox 360 soon followed which was my gateway to meeting my main group of high school friends at the start of my third year in high school.

PC
TF2
League of Legends
Rocket League
Rainbow Six Siege



I can only call up to memory a handful or less of games from each console




I was a lonely kid. Unlike the real world, video games reward you for all the effort you put into them. No matter how hard I tried...



The Elder Scrolls series has followed me across the different gaming stages of my life.

I've played the last three mainline entries in the Elder Scrolls series starting with the Elder Scrolls Morrowind on the original Xbox in the early 2000s, then Oblivion followed on the Xbox 360 a couple years later and finally I played Skyrim

# From Zero to Burrito
2020-02-14
Up until six months ago, the two meals I was able make creamy macaroni and cheese as well as ketchup/mustard/mayonnaise dipping sauce for corn dogs. So... Not much.

Six months ago, I moved out.

Change is scary but it's always required if you want to grow as a person. I've been spreading my wings physically, mentally and socially. Trying to unburden myself of past struggles and saying hello to the new me.

Taking control of parts of my life that I can control makes me feel more confident in parts where I have less control or expertise in.

I'm spent a good portion of my life focusing on my education and my career. To the detriment of other skill sets and aspects of my life unfortunately
I've been on a mission to become a more well rounded person over the past half a year.

I hit the ground running and have been sprinting at the speed of light ever since. I've been learning to cook for myself day in and day out. I've found that living on my own, if I don't take care of myself then no one else will.

Eating well is an important factor in staying physically and mentally healthy. Here's some things I've learned about cooking for myself efficiently and would like to share with you.

First we'll look at acquiring ingredients, then preparation and finally take a look at some tools.

Ingredients
Shopping in person for myself is time consuming and inefficient. I spend an hour or two running around a grocery store organized in some unknowable scheme trying to find specific ingredients.

I'm lucky enough to live in a city where my groceries can be delivered to my door for a small additional fee. Experts run around the grocery aisles gathering my order which I placed online and all my groceries are delivered right to my door.

As we'll see later on, I plan most of my meals ahead of time. When I do my groceries, I have a good idea of what ingredients I'll need to feed myself for a week or two.

Meal Preparation
Set a day aside (most people choose Sunday), where you'll do the majority of your cooking for the week (or more). This practice is often called meal prepping.

By cooking in bulk, you save time and money. By preparing the food you'll be eating, you can take it out of the fridge of freezer, eat it and get on with your day.To help get you started, here's a couple of simple meals I've prepped for breakfast, lunch and dinner.

Breakfast
Batch Boiled eggs


- take 12-18 eggs

- boil them all (keep the shell)
- store them in the fridge

Eating a couple of these boiled eggs a day for breakfast saved me 30 min every day compared to when I was scrambling my eggs daily.

Eating boiled eggs for breakfast every morning is pretty boring so I've been supplementing that with the vegan sensation that is overnight oats.

Overnight oats
- 3/4-1 cup of oats (not instant oats)
- Equal amount of non-dairy milk (actual milk probably works as well)
- 1/8 cup of Chia seeds
- Optional: Additional ingredients for flavor like peanut butter or raspberry jam.

- Dump all ingredients in a container that can be sealed (a bowl works in a pinch)
- Mix it all up
- Seal the container
- Store it in the fridge overnight.

By the morning, it'll be cooked, thicker and ready to eat. It's pleasant to the taste and flexible. I plan to make it once in a while to supplement my boring boiled eggs.

Breakfast is easy though. You don't have to be a genius to boil eggs. These next meals require a little more skill but not much more.

Rice and beans
Rice and beans is a staple meal and very flexible. It can be eaten on its own or with some protein.

- 1 cup of rice
- 1 onion (diced)
- 2-3 cloves of garlic (diced)
- 1 540ml can of beans (red kidney beans or black, rinsed)
- 1 398ml can of peas

- Cook the rice
- Saute one diced onion and a couple cloves of garlic (diced) in a large pan
- Once the onions are translucent, dump the can of beans in the pan
- Once the rice is cooked, dump the cooked rice in there
- Cook it then finally dump some canned peas in there.
- Serve with some more protein, chicken works well.

This can easily make 4 meals which has been great for lunches and is very cheap.

Frozen Bulk Burritos

I've done this once but I'll be doing it again.

Here's the recipe for reference (https://lexiscleankitchen.com/meal-prep-freezer-burritos/). I made use of a pressure cooker to speed up the cooking of the rice (4 cups, it was a little too much so I'll correct that for next time) and simplifying the cooking of the chicken.

Tools
You can only ever be as effective as your best tools. The most important piece of hardware I use in my arsenal is a Chef's knife.  You can use it for almost any kind of cooking you'll be doing, you'll be more effective using it than any crappy knife you can find. Learn how to sharpen it and maintain it properly (that's a work in progress for me).

The pressure cooker I just bought recently is quite effective at cooking a lt of food quickly. It's great for boiling eggs (takes 5min and the shells just come right off).

I use an electric grill to grill meat and vegetables in a pinch. I don't have a balcony and I'm living in a cold climate so barbeque is not feasible.

Containers for storing your prepared meals , ideally glass to facilitate cleaning and reduce smells.

Conclusion
You are what you eat. Do yourself, and everyone who cares about you,  a favor and take care of yourself properly. If you have the means and the fortune then build up that willpower to do something. With a little bit of time and effort, you can make great home-cooked meals for yourself.

Time becomes more and more limited as you grow older and gain more responsibilities, use it wisely, before you know it you'll have wasted your life on bullshit.

One could argue that nothing matters but if you're interested in life to any degree then eating well matters, sleeping well matters, treating others well matters and treating yourself matters.

If you prepare all your food in advance, the amount of food you'll be eating should be more predictable over time than it would be otherwise.



Eating out is expensive and usually unhealthy, more and more services which cook "healthy" and deliver to your door are available nowadays especially if you live in a big city so that might work for you to help supplement your own cooking

One step at a time, I'll build a better future for myself and those around me.

# Panchiko
2021-11-08
Imagine finding a CD in a charity store in 2016 from a band that disbanded in 1999 and nobody's ever heard of. Imagine the music being extremely good?

That's what happened to someone...

Are they weebs? Panchiko -> Pachinko, anime/manga girl on the CD cover, the name of the album?I?

# Urtuk
2021-11-09
Urtuk: the Desolation is a tactical strategy game taking place in a dark and grungy environment.

There's a lot to unpack here, it's very clearly a game made by one person although I'm curious how exactly they got access to all these 2D animated character assets...

If you like your turn-based tactics games (like Battle Brothers) then you might be into this.

One aspect of the game that really surprised me was the UX (User eXperience).

I've played quite a few strategy(neer) in my day and many more than you would expect have a less than ideal user interface. You would expect that these devs would spend some time building an interface that makes the most common actions you take easy to make.

# A Gamer's Guide to: Cheating
~2020-07-xx
........................................ peer-to-peer cheating

In a peer-to-peer architecture, the host player's client is fully responsible for simulating the shared game world inhabited by all the players. Thus, a malicious host player can modify their client through reverse engineering to give themselves an unfair advantage. For example, they could potentially make their character invincible, make their character invisible, allow their character to teleport or phase through walls, etc.

Of course, this is highly dependent on how the video game is made. The anti-cheat industry vs. video game hackers arms race is ever escalating. Some games have proven to quite the challenge to hack while others not so much. We've recently seen a new online competitive multiplayer FPS game put in place a very invasive anti-cheat solution into their game (a process that runs at start up of your computer and runs the whole time that it's on even if you don't play the game). It's all a part of the arms race!

Every game is built differently and so the specific kind of cheating that could occur in a game with a peer-to-peer architecture is vast. As is clear by the efficiency and popularity of GGPO, which is a peer-to-peer architecture, it is possible to create a peer-to-peer architecture that works and doesn't allow for cheating but it's quite hard. Fighting games are a special edge case considering that you usually only have two players playing with each other at a time, there's not much cheating that could occur given how most fighting games work and fighting games aren't popular enough to warrant the work you would need to put into making cheats for them.

..............
