---
authors: Gretchen McCulloch
books/tags:
  - non-fiction
date: 2022-01-20
params:
  isbn13: "9780735210936"
star_rating: 4
title: Because Internet
---

Because Internet: Understanding the New Rules of Language discusses how we
express ourselves on the internet, how we got here and where we're going from
the perspective of a linguist.

<!--more-->

I'm [always been in 💖 with words](/blog/2022-01-14/) but, somehow, I've gone
through most of my life without studying linguistics at all.

(ノಠ益ಠ)ノ彡┻━┻

(┛◉Д◉)┛彡┻━┻

(┛ಠ_ಠ)┛彡┻━┻

┏━┓┏━┓┏━┓ ︵ /(^.^/)

I started listening to [the Lingthusiasm podcast](https://lingthusiasm.com/) in
early 2021. It took me a while (until early 2022) to read the book written by
one of the hosts (Gretchen McCulloch), but here we are.

_Because Internet: Understanding the New Rules of Language_ is a book that
discusses how we express ourselves on the internet, how we got here and where
we're going from the perspective of a linguist.

I am what the book refers to as a _Full Internet Person_ having gotten online in
the early 2000s, chatting with friends using MSN Messenger, then later Facebook
and, eventually, I started writing super cringe blog posts on Tumblr (some might
say that I never stopped).

One topic covered in the book is how the use of linguistic gestures/emblems
online (like emoticons and emoji) has changed over the past few decades.

Gestures are an integral part of human nature and communication. They're
instinctual and they're deeply ingrained in us.

Two people who are blind at birth, when speaking to each other, will make
gestures despite neither of them being able to see the gestures.

Words are great, but by limiting ourselves to words and only words, we're
missing out on a wide range of tools we can use to express ourselves. Especially
in informal contexts, where expressing how you feel quickly and easily, without
having to be a genius writer, is useful.

In the letters that people used to write to each other (in a pre-internet
world), it was quite common to see words mixed in with doodles of hearts and
smiley faces.

We've been doing this for a long time, it's just that the way we imbue gestures
into our writing has changed as the technologies we use to communicate with each
other have evolved.

In the West, we started off with emoticons like :-P, :(, ;) (the nose was
dropped sometime in the 2000s).

In Asia, kaomoji were used in similar ways.

^\_^

o_O

¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

Sidenote: You'll notice that emoticons tend to have similar eyes and different
mouths whereas the opposite can be said for kaomoji. This is because in Asia,
it's more common for people to look at someone's eyes when trying to figure out
that person's emotional state. Whereas people in the West tend to look at mouths
instead.

_This might explain why anime characters usually have gigantic eyes..._

We have the Japanese to thank for many things, emoji is just one of them.[^1] In
1999, Shigetaka Kurita was inspired by the use of symbolic representations in
manga, like a water drop on someone's face to represent nervousness or
confusion, and created one of the first emoji sets for cellphones.

In the late 2000s, Apple decided that they wanted their iPhones to support
emojis specifically for the Japanese market. They did the work to make that
happen and, finally, decided to add support for emojis across the globe.

Emojis caught on in a big way all over the world and, eventually, they became
ubiquitous (if you're chatting with someone on the internet in 2022, no matter
what application you're using, you probably have access to emojis and you likely
use them quite a bit).

Because Internet also talks about the various ways in which people have tried to
imbue tone of voice into their internet writing (with varying degrees of
success).

> hey
>
> you
>
> listen

_Short utterances without punctuation like this might have been popular with the
zoomers on Tumblr/Twitter?_

> I'm ~very~ excited about this ~new~ sarcasm marker.

_But no, actually, I am. I'm probably going to be using the ~ quite a bit._

> HELP ME! I'M SHOUTING

_AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA_

I don't know how to end this.

Let's metaphorically jump off this 🌉 together.

i like book

you should read it

bye

[^1]:
    Negishi, Mayumi (March 26, 2014). "Meet Shigetaka Kurita, the Father of
    Emoji". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 16, 2015.
