---
title: "Lonely Castle in the Mirror"
authors:
  - "Mizuki Tsujimura"
  - "Philip Gabriel"
date: 2024-04-22
star_rating: 4
books/tags:
  - "fiction"
  - "fantasy"
---

Childhood trauma. Check.

Split timeline. Check.

Transported to another world. Check.

Children competing for a prize (to the death?). Check.

This is Japan.

<!--more-->

---

# thoughts on the ending, beware of spoilers

{{< spoiler >}}

The last quarter of the book was a rollercoaster ride. Part of me would have
liked some of the exposition and reveals that happen there to have been revealed
more evenly throughout the book but I can't deny that back loading it all made
for a more powerful ending.

I think that labeling a book that features this many traumatic situations
(serious bullying, attempted sexual violence, suicide, child cancer/death) as
**cozy** is a farce. But I would say that the overall message is one of hope and
connection with others.

Despite being rife with depictions of and references to traumatic events, the
way it's presented feels very real and earned. I hate "trauma porn" and this is
not that thankfully.

The POV switches that happen at the end were a great way to show the reader that
you never can truly know what other people have been through and so it's
important to be open minded and be kind to others. Everybody has an internal
world that is as complex as your own, and you'll never really be able to fully
know 100% of someone else's lived experience. So be kind!

{{< /spoiler >}}

Despite the troubling yet real themes, Lonely Castle in the Mirror is a fairy
tale-esque story with a hopeful message.

No matter how isolated and lonely you are, there's people who've been through
what you've been through and will understand you. All you need to do is find
these people and do everything you can to keep them in your life.

And, time is fleeting and life is short so it's up to us to make the most of it
while we're here.

The book is not preachy but it presents these ideas in an organic and real way
that feels earned.

I loved the book. Reading a book like this when I was a kid would have been
really great.

---

# Thoughts on the translation

The translation is mostly good but there's a few sentences that could have used
some work.

**"Ugly girls like you are the pits!"**

_Nobody uses the word "pits" like this anymore._

**It was 29 March, the day before the farewell party.**

_It's "March 29th" not "29 March". I don't care that we're translating from
Japanese, you wouldn't be able to tell by the grammar/syntax alone if this was a
perfect translation._

**"It's apple tea," said Aki. "It's also weird how the plates and cups I used
were all washed up."**

_This isn't how the words "washed up" are meant to be used. Philip Gabriel
repeats this wording 3 times in the next few sentences._

---

Generally, I've been disappointed with translations of Japanese works because it
seems like Japanese is such a hard language to learn that it's hard to find a
translator who's both fluent and a great writer. Ideally, translators should be
better at writing than the authors of the texts they translate. Why? So they can
write a text that both stands on its own and adapts the original faithfully
while changing it enough to make it compelling for a new audience.

Philip Gabriel did a fine job here from what I can tell, but the text could have
used another editing pass.
