---
title: Just Another Cog Roadmap
blog: journals
date: 2012-12-01
tags:
---
It's the 26th of December 2012 and if you're reading you know that the world has not ended… Yet.

Tons of events have happened in the past few weeks that I'd like to talk about in the future. In this post, I will briefly discuss each and lay all them out so that anybody reading can get an idea of what this blog is going to be about.

From the 4th of December until the 13th, I was hard at work simultaneously studying for my university finals and working on a Python project called Writerator. I had to take Linear Algebra, Discrete Structures I and Intro to Computer Science. I'm proud to say that my exams went well even though the majority of my time was spent not studying but programming. By doing well on my exams, I've proven to myself that even if I have a lot of school related work to do, I'm able to pursue my passion for programming and succeed as a student at the same time.

I'll talk about Writerator, what it is and how it came to be in detail, in a future post. It's a command-line tool capable of searching through English texts for various types of information such as occurences of patterns, the most common words, the Gunning-Fog Index and more. It is also able to randomly generate different types of non-rhyming poetry such as haikus from user given source texts. It is by no means complete and I'd like to get back to working on it sometime soon. But if I can't or am occupied by other interesting projects, the source code is available on GitHub under Apache 2.0 License for others to improve as they wish.

The day before my last exam, the 12th, I stopped working on Writerator entirely and studied from 6am to 10pm for my Intro to CS exam. I wanted to do especially well on this exam because, as you may know, I'm really passionate about programming. In any case, by devoting myself completely to my studying, I pushed aside all thoughts about Writerator. After the exam, I came home and asked myself, "Well, now what?" And so, I replied to myself, "How about I make a game?" I've played games all my life and I felt that it was time to transfer that love for playing games into a love for building games. This is how my InfiniCube project came into existence. As with Writerator, I will devote future posts (I'm not sure how many yet) to speak about everything related to InfiniCube (gameplay, coding, libraries used, what I learned, ...). The source code is also available on GitHub for anyone to look at or use for their own purposes.

On the 20th, after playing InfiniCube for an hour straight, I realized to my surprise (as a first-time game programmer) that InfiniCube was actually not totally bad. On the contrary, it was actually fun. It's by no means game of the year material but I built it from the ground up all by myself (with the help of some friends/playtesters who shall not go unthanked). That was when I decided that I would stop working on InfiniCube for awhile and start working on something new. That was when my friend CJ (not his real name), asked if I would be interested in working on a Java project with him. It's the only language he knows, making it a requirement for working together until he learns some more languages. I politely declined because I don't enjoy programming in Java. I technically have the most experience programming in Java but for many reasons, I feel as if programming in Java is more painful than it should be and that there are more pleasing languages out there (at least for me). I'd like to work with CJ but I don't want to program in Java. So, I tried to find a solution to this problem and I found Scala. Scala is a Java-like language (JVM-based) that combines the best of functional and object-oriented programming paradigms into one clean and succinct language which is 100% compatible with Java (I could code in Scala, he could code in Java). And so, since the 20th, I've been having fun learning Scala at my own pace (slow and steady) and enjoying the holidays. Therefore, I also plan on talking about Scala and my experience learning it.

Lastly, I'd like to find some reason to talk about Japanese ninja movies because they're totally baddass, awesome, creative, exciting, emotional, sad, crazy, etc. If you're impatient and would like to check a few out right now, I suggest you watch either Goemon (epic tragi-action-comedy), Shinobi:Heart Under Blade (Romeo and Juliet with ninjas) or Ninja Scroll (old school animated ninjas, not for the easily offended).
