---
title: Collectible Card Games
blog: journals
date: 2013-04-01
tags: gaming
---
Collectible cards games train the mind to bring different and unique pieces of a puzzle together into a unified and working whole. The inherent positive potential of collectible card games is often overlooked due to their inherent money sink quality. In the world of today, mass-marketed products, like collectible card games, are not meant to make the world a better place but are specifically manufactured to generate profit.

Keeping this in mind, collectible card games have the potential to act as valuable sources of knowledge and experience in many areas of life, such as problem-solving, curiosity, strategy, imagination, for the general population. However, this potential is rarely, if ever, realized due to the collectible nature of collectible card games.

99.999999% of the time, players of collectible card games play with a very small subset of all possible cards, severely restricting and preventing the player from experiencing an interesting range of possibilities (combinations of cards and strategies) that would more naturally lead to learning.

A writer can't write a great story only using three letters of the alphabet. A mathematician can't construct a fundamental mathematical proof without access to all of his previous knowledge on the subject. A chef can't cook a tasty dish without all of the ingredients in the recipe.

Sadly, money (to buy more cards, distributed in a randomized manner) acts as a barrier to the expansive and rich worlds contained within certain collectible card games. Because of this, the potential good for society held within most collectible card games is wasted.

If we remove the collectible aspect of collectible card games but retain their enormous libraries of cards, give each player access to each card as their experience grows rather than as their pockets are filled with disposable cash, then we could possibly use these games to make people smarter, more creative and better problem solvers.

I've been playing the most recent Yugioh game for the Nintendo DS. The barrier separating myself as the player from acquiring cards is not real world money but time and experience. As you win matches against NPCs or other players online, you gain points that can be spent to buy cards. As you play the game and acquire new cards, the possibilities and combinations available to the player increase exponentially.

Building decks of cards is accessible and fun. While building decks, my brain seems to be working at super speed, asking questions left and right non-stop. What kind of cards would I like to have in a deck centered around denying the opponents ability to attack? Do I have too many spells in this deck? Are my traps sufficient? What are strengths and weaknesses of my deck and how can improve on them?

The process of building a deck is not unlike software development. It's an iterative process, beginning with an idea (or focus) which is then prototyped, implemented, tested and then the process repeats itself.

I only have so much free time and I'd prefer to spend it doing something that'll make me a better person. Is playing collectible/not collectible card games a good way to spend my time? I'm not sure. In any case, every person has to have some time to do what they want to do rather than what they need to do.
