---
title: Class
blog: journals
date: 2013-04-01
tags:
---
When I'm in class, I feel as if the only two people who are actively listening to the lecture are a couple students, including me, and the prof. No one else. Barely anyone seems happy to be there and frowns can be seen in droves. Amazing jokes cause ten students out of two hundred to laugh out loud. Very few seem to care.

It's always been like this. In my last years of high school, my peers seemed to "turn off" during most classes but especially science-oriented affairs like physics, chemistry and mathematics. Looking back, I realize that this might simply have been the result of a flawed education system which allows a select few with certain abilities to flourish whilst leaving the rest to struggle and fend for themselves, encouraging most students to become disillusioned with education and learning as a whole.

In university, I told myself that things would change. Those who wished to pursue higher education could decide for themselves what they'd like to learn and this would make them care a little more about their classes. Right?

But then, I remembered something important. Some students don't know what they want to do with their lives, so they pick something quasi-randomly and hope for the best. Most, who don't know what they want in life, follow the whim's of their parents and end up hating every waking moment of their time in school.

Picking a socially acceptable and parentally-approved program instead of choosing one which coincides with your personal interests is what a lot of students are forced into doing. Society told her that, "Artists don't make money" and so she gave up on her dream of becoming a cartoonist. His parents warned him, "Become a doctor and be happy", and pushed him away from his passion for engineering birthed in a childhood spent under piles of Legos.

Sometimes the truth hurts. Not everyone can become a doctor, but more importantly, not everyone should become a doctor. Some people aren't able to face the facts. Ask yourself, "How do you like chemistry?" and "How do you like biology?" If the answer to both questions is, "I hate it with all my heart", then, my next question for you is, "why in the heck are you trying to become a doctor?"

All around me, I see unhappy faces who'd rather be doing something else. These people need to be set straight by the ones close to them. Tell them, "Nothing and no one is forcing you to stay here; go away and find your place in the world, evidently, it's not in this classroom."

I'm lucky because I know what I'm passionate about. I'm walking on a path of my own choosing. No one told me to go into Computer Science. Me, myself and I made a conscious decision to make programming my life. I am here today because I wish to be here, I am in control of my own destiny. And, everyone else should be too.

From day one, we should be telling kids, "You are the master of your own universe and don't let anyone tell you otherwise." A person who doesn't choose for himself is condemned to a unhappy life of quasi-slavery, bowing down to the wishes and dreams of others.

My parents allowed me to choose and I am grateful. To those people who are seeking meaning and happiness in life, I say, "Stop being passive, make your own choices and stop wasting your time living another person's life."

Bill
