---
title: Game of the Year 2019 List
blog: journals
date: 2020-01-17
youtube_video_id: eZeHdAG4yWw
tags: gaming
---
Here's a list of the video games I played in 2019 which I enjoyed and remembered (in no particular order) with a couple notes talking about each.

# Age of Wonders: Planetfall
Age of Wonders: Planetfall is a modern 4X strategy game focused on tactical turn-based combat with great controller support set in a futuristic world. The gamelay is split into a Civilization-like strategy layer where the player leads their faction in a bid for control over a procedurally generated overworld, joining in an XCOM-like tactical combat layer with the other factions on the map.

I wanted to play a strategy game with good controller support, and Planetfall was the perfect fit for me. Each player (or AI) takes control a race combined with a secret technology which leads to a lot of variety in the gameplay with regards to yourself and how you interact with the other players. For example, you might play as Amazon-like people riding dinosaurs who are into spreading bio-plague everywhere or you might play as space dwarfs into hacking the world or as cyborgs on the verge of ascending as divine beings.

Its strong focus on combat and how well it integrates itself into the overarching strategic gameplay made this game one of my favorites of the year. I'm excited to go back to playing it whenever the next expansion comes out this year.

# Trials Rising
Here's [my video review of Trials Rising](../../../../reviews/video-game/2019/03/13/trials-rising.html) which I wrote and recorded earlier this year during my extended break from employment (don't expect any more reviews to come where that came from).

Trials Rising is the latest entry in the Trials series of physics-based time trials side scrolling motocross games? I've loved the Trials series since I was in late primary school (the flash games) and early high school and I not much is going to me from loving it now.

What makes this entry notable for me is that each level is polished to such an extent that it is either great or perfect and nothing less. The in-depth rider and bike customization system is not essential but is great (everybody likes playing dressup). Its extensive tutorial system is great for teaching players new to the series the higher level techniques in-game.

It's a very demanding game when played at a high level but it's worth the effort for the (actual) feeling of accomplishment you gain when you beat your record on a tough level, or better yet, beat a friend's record.


# Blood Bowl 2
Here's [an article I wrote about Blood Bowl 2 and why I love it](../../../../journals/2019/05/07/blood-bowl-2-dice-and-rsi.html). I've been playing Blood Bowl for a couple years now. In 2019, I joined the Reddit Blood Bowl league, or REBBL for short with a necromantic team I christened the "Grr Patrol" due to their werewolves. Every week or so (at least during the season), I play the match that's scheduled with an opponent. Points are scored, players are injured or killed and your team's and your opponent's team's destiny can be made or broken on the spot. No other game has made me laugh out loud or swear a storm like Blood Bowl has. It's taught me a great deal about life (I'm not even kidding).

If you're looking for catharsis then I would strongly suggest you consider joining me in REBBL for a jolly good time (usually, your mileage may vary).


# Resident evil 2 remake
- great mix of modern and old resident evil style gameplay
- dead rising esque (resident evil 1 like those older games) memorization of pathing to and from various areas of the environment
- Mr. X
- I've never beaten a game 9 times in a row, repeated playthroughs are made fun by the optimizations of combat, puzzles and pathing that can be made each time


# Dota Underlords
- intriguing game play (auto chess genre)
- valve's polish and style
- consistent updates and balance patches keep things fresh
- I would play it more if it was designed to be played on controller
- it was kind of stale for a couple weeks and I dropped off

# EDF 5
- Evergreen game series
- no one else makes games like this and no one can other than edf. There's only space for exactly one game like this on the market or seems like
- it satisfies an itch that goes unscratched by other games, there's nothing quite like it

# Mudrunner
- Heavy duty Russian vehicle simulation in which you're tasked with exploring various swamps, Hills, forests and moving trees from the logging camps to the goal
- meditative
- figuring out how to convoy vehicles across raging rivers, pulling vehicles out of the muck and you're using a hinch to pull your vehicle out of the water are all activities
- there's nothing quite like it

# Hitman 2
- the only games that keep my interest these days must be unique, extremely well executed
- Hitman falls into both categories
- it's the culmination of years of development in the Hitman franchise, now they know what they're doing, they've developed the right technologies to implement their clear vision
- they're firing on all cylinders like never before

# Beat Saber
- VR + Rythm games, a match made in heaven
- Evergreen


# Mortal Kombat 11
- Great story mode
- great visuals


# Nite team 4
- ARG video game?
- Solving puzzles as a sort of hacker is a ton of fun


# Sekiro
- maybe too long and hard for me, 40h+
- Best game I've played from From Software
- the game holds your hand even less than dark souls, it expects a lot from you
- whereas dark souls 3 was actually not that hard for me for most of the way through, Sekiro was insanely tough right from the get go.
- I might have to go back to it


# State of Decay 2
- wasn't amazing
- nostalgia for the first game mostly drove me through this one
- they didn't change enough about the formula to make it compelling enough
- although I spent a good chunk of time with the game, it fell short of my lofty expectations.

# Closing Thoughts
Mini lists.
Games I want to play this year:
- Cyberpunk 2077

Games I want come back to:
- Druidstone
- Nowhere Prophet
